How do we learn the parameters for
naive Bayes?
The simplest way to learn
the multinomial naive Bayes model
is to use maximum likelihood estimates.
Simply use the frequencies in the data.
So if we're trying to compute
the prior probability of a particular
document being in a class, class j, we
have the count of all the documents, and
out of those how many of
the documents are in class j.
That's our prior that a random
document will be in class j.
For the likelihood the probability
of words have i given class sub j,
we count the number of times words
of i occurs in documents of class j.
And we normalize by the total number of
words in class j, so the sum over all
the words in the vocabulary of the count
of those words in documents of class j.
So out of all the words
in documents of class j,
how many of them are our particular
word words sub i we're looking at?
So we're going to compute the fraction
of times a word wi appears
among all the words in the document
of this particular topic c sub j.
We're going to do this by creating
a kind of mega document for
topic j by concatenating all the documents
that have that topic together.
And then we're going to use the frequency
of w in this mega document.
So for sentiment analysis we might have a
document sub positive, a mega document for
all the positive documents, and
we're just going to concatenate them all
together into some big mega document.
We might have a document sub neg and
so on.
Now I've been lying to you, we don't
in fact use maximum likelihood for
naive Bayes.
And the reason is the following, imagine
we're looking at the word fantastic.
We're interested in the word fantastic,
might occur in the test set, but
it happens not to appear in the training
set in the topic positive, let's say.
So the probability of fantastic given
the class positive in our training
set by maximum likelihood is the count
of fantastic occurring in positive,
normalized by the sum over all words of
the count of those words in positive.
But fantastic never occurs so
that count is 0.
So the maximum likely estimate for
the likelihood of fantastic
given positive will be 0.
Why is that bad?
Because these 0 probabilities
can never be conditioned away.
If we're looking for
the most likely class,
that's the argmax over all classes
of the prior times the likelihood.
And if one of those likelihood terms is 0,
then this whole thing is 0,
and we're never going to pick that class.
The solution is very simple,
add-1 smoothing.
So here's the computation
without smoothing.
And add-1 smoothing,
we simply add 1 to each of those counts.
So we'll add 1 to the count
when it's in the numerator and
every time that count occurs in
the denominator we add a1 to that too.
And we can rewrite that in
the form we've seen before
where we're taking the total number
of tokens that were in class c.
And we've added the vocabulary
size because we added 1 from every
vocabulary item into the denominator.
So classic Laplace or add-1 smoothing.
So let's walk through
the calculation of these parameters.
First from the training corpus,
we're going to extract the vocabulary,
the list of words.
Next we're going to calculate
the priors for each class c sub j.
So for each class, we're going to get the
set of all documents that have that class.
We'll call that set docs sub j.
And the number of documents in that set
divided by the total number of documents,
that will give us our prior
probability of that particular class.
Now for the likelihood, we're going to
want to compute the likelihood for
every word w sub k given every topic,
c sub j.
So first we're going to create our
mega document by concatenating all
the documents sub j into a mega
document called text sub j.
And now for each word w sub k in our
vocabulary, we're going to count
the number of times w sub k occurs
in this mega document text sub j.
So that will be n sub k.
And now, the probability, the likelihood
of word sub k given class sub j,
is just the add-1 smooth, or
I've shown you the add-alpha smooth
version of the naive Bayes algorithm.
So we've added alpha to n sub k and
then the denominator we have n,
the total number of tokens in the class j.
What about unknown words?
A simple way to deal with unknown words
is simply to add an extra word to
the vocabulary.
You might call that w sub u,
the unknown word.
And now, what does that do
with our likelihood equation?
Here's the likelihood
equation written out again.
We've added a new word, w sub u, so
I've increased our vocabulary size by 1.
Now what is the count of w sub
u in any particular class c?
Well, the word was unknown, so
it never occurred in our training set so
that count is zero.
So the likelihood term for that unknown
word is going to be simply 1 over n,
that's the number of tokens
in the class c, + the V + 1.
So each of our unknown words is going to
be modeled by this very simplistic model
of the probability of an unknown word.
So learning the parameters of naïve Bayes,
a simple computation for the prior and
a slightly more complex computation for
the likelihood in
which we can use add-1 smoothing and
we can deal with unknown words.